hello this is chef john from food wishes
comm with creamy mushroom braised meat
loaf that's right instead of cooking
meatloaf and making a mushroom gravy for
it i wanted to know what would happen if
I did those together and what happened
was a pretty delicious lunch so here's
what I did I made a meatloaf and I was
totally going to show you the recipe for
this it's a three meat loaf pork veal
and beef but I wasn't completely
thrilled on how it came out
alright the texture was really good but
the taste just wasn't quite what I
wanted so anyway I'm gonna keep working
on that and show you my three meatloaf
at a future date but anyway the rest of
this will work with any of our
pre-existing meatloaf recipes or
whatever is currently your favorite
meatloaf recipe ideally one that pairs
well with a creamy mushroom sauce so
once your meatloaf mixtures together I
want you to form it into a loaf that's
about six inches across maybe three
inches high now you can do this on a
sheet pan or in a big wide Bowl like I'm
doing it because what you're going to
want to be able to do is slide this push
this off into our creamy mushroom
braising liquid which is actually the
topic of this video recipe so how did we
make that we're going to take six ounces
of shitake mushrooms
and as you may know you can't use the
stems they're just a little too tough
and fibrous so just go ahead and pull
those off alright you just want the caps
and it's nice of their whole because
we're going to slice these up but if a
few break don't worry shitake happens
alright so slice those up and at that
point we're going to head over to the
stove where I have a large skillet on
medium-high heat with a lot of butter
when I see that foamy part of the butter
start to turn a little bit tan I will
throw in those mushrooms with a big
pinch of salt and we're going to cook
those until well browned all right so
stage one they're just going to kind of
get I don't know slimy and they'll just
kind of sizzle like that and then if you
keep cooking they will dry out a little
bit and start to brown nicely like that
at that stage I'm going to add a pinch
of fresh rosemary alright so give that a
stir that just goes a couple seconds and
then I'm going to add my flour to this
which is going to make yes a roux so
we're going to stir in the flour it's
going to get all clumpy and kind of dry
and
no kind of ugly looking that's okay we
just want to coat the mushrooms with the
flour we're going to just cook that for
about three minutes just like that it's
not going to look good it's not supposed
to don't worry we're just taking the raw
edge off the flour at that point you're
going to pour in your cold beef broth
all right maybe half a cup at a time
just pour it in whisk pour it in whisk
and because the stock the broth is cold
and the roux is hot there's no lumps so
stir that in alright we're going to turn
the heat up to high bring this up to a
simmer and of course because it's a roux
as soon as it comes to a simmer it will
thicken up we're going to season that
with salt and freshly ground black
pepper so that's going to come up to a
simmer it's going to thicken up and at
that point we're going to turn off the
heat and stir in our heavy cream okay
and that's basically it so now we're
exactly at the stage you saw at the
beginning of the video when we slid our
already formed meatloaf into the skillet
so one tip make sure you make this sauce
in something that can go into the oven
because that's how we're going to cook
this now the next time I make this I'm
going to put it in the oven like this
Brown the top and then baste it with
this mushroom sauce here I was so drawn
to that sauce it just kept telling me
please spoon me over that meatloaf
I couldn't resist alright sometimes the
urge is just too strong and I gave in
and I spoon that sauce over the meatloaf
and I put it in the oven and it still
was fine but I think I will Brown that
first next time alright that went into a
low oven 325 degrees for an hour and 30
minutes or until an internal temperature
of 155 and at that point it was done and
that's looking very rustic you could
slice and serve just like that but
because that me did cook in that sauce
lots of stuff came out from that meat
juice fat alright the proteins kind of
coagulated underneath so you do have
some stuff going on in that sauce so
this is something you definitely need to
skim the fat off the top I actually skim
the fat off the top and boiled the sauce
in the pan for about five minutes to
thicken it up a little bit but anyway
I'm sure you figure out the rest
slice meatloaf pour over
sauce eat with mashed potatoes I didn't
even pretend to have a vegetable side
dish with this so my theory here was the
meatloaf will flavor the gravy as it
roasts as it braises which it did and
also cooking the meatloaf on top of the
sauce would keep the oven nice and moist
and as the meatloaf was flavoring the
sauce hopefully the sauce we flavoring
the meatloaf
alright so how did it taste really good
the sauce excellent the texture the
moisture of the meatloaf excellent but
like I said I wasn't thrilled with the
actual meatloaf itself but this
technique I think was worthwhile and I
do think the meatloaf definitely
definitely improved the flavor of the
sauce versus just making it separate so
anyway the next time you're playing to
make meatloaf if you're a fan of
mushroom sauces maybe give this
technique a try
and of course head over to food whooshes
calm for all the ingredient amounts as
well as more info as usual and as always
enjoy